= yara
Eric Monti - emonti at trustwave dot com

== Introduction

Ruby bindings for the yara malware analysis library.

YARA is a tool aimed at helping malware researchers to identify and classify 
malware families. With YARA you can create descriptions of malware families
based on textual or binary information contained on samples of those families.
These descriptions, named rules, consist of a set of strings and a Boolean
expression which determines the rule logic.

Yara and it's code are copyrights of Victor M. Alvarez. Please see
http://code.google.com/p/yara-project/


== Usage

  # basic example... find all PE files under the current dir

  require 'yara'

  ctx = Yara::Rules.new
  ctx.compile_string "rule IsPE { condition: uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and uint32(uint32(0x3C)) == 0x00004550 }"

  Dir["**/*", "*"].each do |fname|
    begin
      next unless File.file?(fname)
      ctx.scan_file(fname).each {|match| puts "#{fname} -> #{match.rule}" }
    rescue Yara::ScanError => e
      STDERR.puts e
    end
  end

== Versioning
The current version of libyara at the time of writing is 1.4.0. Bindings
have been written against this API and may not work with earlier versions
of the libyara library.

The major and minor version numbers of the ruby library are intended
to be in step with the C api version.

== Requirements
* libyara 1.4 must be installed - http://code.google.com/p/yara-project/

== Installation

First make sure you have libyara and its dependencies installed. You'll need
libyara and yara.h in your search paths.

Install the yara ruby package from a gem:

    (sudo)? gem install yara

Or from the github package.

    git clone https://github.com/SpiderLabs/yara-ruby.git
    cd yara-ruby
    rake compile


== Copyright
yara-ruby - Ruby bindings for the yara malware analysis library.
Eric Monti
Copyright (C) 2011 Trustwave Holdings

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the 
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but 
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

See LICENSE.txt
